Specification for type references and ownership (#147)
Azure/k8s-infra: spec/type_references_and_ownership.md

# Type references and ownership

## Related reading
1. [Kubernetes garbage collection](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/)

## Goals
1. Provide a way for customers to express relationships between Azure resources in Kubernetes in an idiomatic way.
2. Provide automatic ownership and garbage collection (using [Kubernetes garbage collection](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/)) 
   where appropriate (e.g. ResourceGroup as an owner of all the resources inside of it)
   1. Ideally ResourceGroup is handled the same as other owners and isn't special cased. 
3. Define how Kubernetes interacts with Azure resources not created/managed by Kubernetes, for example resources which were created prior to the 

>    customer onboarding to the Azure Service Operator.

Reviewer: Ha, interesting, I'd never thought of numbered lists implying priorities. I generally use numbered lists over bullets if I might refer back to specific items later on.

>    customer onboarding to the Azure Service Operator.

Author: > I generally use numbered lists over bullets if I might refer back to specific items later on.

This is basically my intent too - although [the APA guidelines](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/lists/bulleted) agree with Bevan

>    customer onboarding to the Azure Service Operator.

Reviewer 2: FWIW, if I need to refer back to specific items I try to name them - otherwise all the references break when I modify/reorder the list.

>    customer onboarding to the Azure Service Operator.

Author: I fixed this I think

 
## Non-goals
??

## Different kinds of resource relationships in Azure
#### Related/linked resources 

> Two resources are related to one another ("has-a" relationship), but there is no ownership.

Author: This isn't actually supposed to be a separate paragraph. The example (line 2 in markdown) really goes with the above line (which is how its rendered when you actually view the rendered markdown)

> Example: [VMSS -> Subnet](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/master/apis/microsoft.compute/v1/virtualmachinescaleset_types.go#L169) ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-07-01/Microsoft.Compute.json))

Author: No, relationships are monodirectional in both cases (a owns b, or a refers to b). If B also refers back to A, that would be specified on the definition of B - but I am not aware of any resources which actually have such a relationship in Azure.

> Example: [VMSS -> Subnet](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/master/apis/microsoft.compute/v1/virtualmachinescaleset_types.go#L169) ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-07-01/Microsoft.Compute.json))

Author: Will update document to clarify this a bit

#### Owner and dependent
Two resources have a relationship where one is owned by the other.

Examples:
1. [RouteTable -> Route](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/master/apis/microsoft.network/v1/routetable_types.go#L18) ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2020-03-01/Microsoft.Network.json))
2. BatchAccount -> Pool ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2017-09-01/Microsoft.Batch.json))
3. ResourceGroup -> Any resource

This relationship tells us two things:
1. Where to create/manage the dependent resource (this `Route` goes in this particular `RouteTable`, this `RouteTable` has this `Route`)
2. That the dependent resource should be deleted when the parent resource is deleted. TODO: Race conditions here

Note that sometimes an owning type has its dependent type embedded as a property 

> (for example: [RouteTable has a property routes - look for "RouteTablePropertiesFormat"](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2020-03-01/Microsoft.Network.json)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(for example: `RouteTable` has the property [`RouteTablePropertiesFormat`](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2020-03-01/Microsoft.Network.json))
```

> Most types don't embed the dependent resource directly in the owning resource. We need to cater to both scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most types do not embed the dependent resource directly in the owning resource. We need to cater to both scenarios.
```

Suggest avoiding the contraction here in order to provide emphasis - it's possibly the most important part of the sentence.

## What does expressing these relationships look like in existing solutions?

> 

Reviewer 2: Should put a summary in here so that readers have an overview of what the following subsections cover.

### Related/Linked resources

#### What ARM does
These are just properties (often but not always called `id`) which refer to the fully qualified ARM ID of another resource. For example see a

> [sample deployment template for a VMSS refering to an existing vnet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/blob/master/201-vmss-existing-vnet/azuredeploy.json#L136).

Reviewer 2: Suggest copying a fragment of that example in here so that readers don't have to look elsewhere for details.

#### What ASO does
Similar to what ARM templates do, ASO uses the decomposition of fully qualified resource id to reference another resource, as seen [here for VMSS -> VNet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/blob/92240406aff3863f3a267d8a1dc1e28aa3e841ae/api/v1alpha1/azurevmscaleset_types.go#L25)

> ```go

Reviewer 2: Blank line before code blocks. #nit

type VirtualMachineScaleSetSpec struct {
    // +kubebuilder:validation:Required
    ResourceGroupRef *azcorev1.KnownTypeReference `json:"resourceGroupRef" group:"microsoft.resources.infra.azure.com" kind:"ResourceGroup"`
    ...
}
```

The other pattern is where the owning resource has links to the dependent resources it is expecting to have:
```go
type RouteTableSpecProperties struct {
    DisableBGPRoutePropagation bool                          `json:"disableBgpRoutePropagation,omitempty"`
    RouteRefs                  []azcorev1.KnownTypeReference `json:"routeRefs,omitempty" group:"microsoft.network.infra.azure.com" kind:"Route" owned:"true"`
}
```

If the dependent resources aren't there, the status of the owning resource reflects an error explaining that.

## Proposal

### How to represent references
We construct a new type which is our reference holder. I am calling this approach `AugmentedKnownTypeReference` (real type name TBD), because
it's similar to the current approach that `k8s-infra` is taking but with a few changes.

```go
type AugmentedKnownTypeReference struct {
    Kubernetes KubernetesReference
    Azure      AzureReference
}

type KubernetesReference struct {

>     // The "Group" of the owning resources GVK. There may be an annotation on the property 

Author: I've added some details to the document explaining why it isn't needed. The short of it is, the purpose of this is to link to another Kubernetes resource. Because K8s resources are all stored in the storage version in etcd, and all this really is doing is giving us a link to the etcd content (so we can look up the name of the resource in question and then build the ARM ID for it) we don't need the version because it's just an etcd lookup.

Put another way, my understanding is that while there can be different versions of an object in Kubernetes, those versions are just views on the one underlying object - here we only need a link to the one underlying object.

    // that specifies Group, in which case this is optional (if supplied it must match the group
    // on the annotation). For resources which do not have a group annotation, this is required.
    // TODO: It's possibly going to be confusing to customers when they have to specify this and when they don't...
    Group string

    // The "Kind" of the owning resources GVK. There may be an annotation on the property 
    // that specifies Kind, in which case this is optional (if supplied it must match the kind
    // on the annotation). For resources which do not have a kind annotation, this is required.
    // TODO: It's possibly going to be confusing to customers when they have to specify this and when they don't... 
    Kind string

    // This is the name of the kubernetes resource to reference. 

> 	// References across namespaces are not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // References across namespaces are not supported.
```

    Name string

    // Note that ownership across namespaces in Kubernetes is not allowed, but technically resource
    // references are. There are RBAC considerations here though so probably easier to just start by 
    // disallowing cross-namespace references
}

type AzureReference struct {
    // The subscription the Azure resource is in. If empty, this defaults to the subscription the resource 
    // holding the reference is in. 
    // TODO: If we're worried about this we could also remove it initially, ASO currently doesn't support cross sub references anyway
    Subscription string

>     // The resource group the Azure resource is in. If empty, this defaults to the resource group the resource 

Reviewer 2: Add gaps between members. #nit

    1. What happens if parent (with same name) is recreated immediately in k8s?
4. How are CRD YAMLs going to be rendered into actual ARM deployments - are we making one spec with `dependsOn` or sending many different specs?
   How are we getting ordering right?
5. How can we allow customers to easily find all dependents for a particular owner (i.e. all subnets of a vnet) using `kubectl`?
6. Test out an `id` detection heuristic.
7. How does this property (which doesn't exist in the Azure ARM spec) get transformed into the right ARM JSON?

## Questions
These are questions I am posing to the group - I don't expect to have an answer without input from the group.

1. Basically everything above is extremely ARM specific. IDs are represented in a different way for data planes and non-ARM endpoints, 
   and those endpoints JSON schemas may not have the magical `resources` property which allows us to identify owner-dependent relationships.
   How do we structure the code to solve our ARM problems but allow for alternate solutions for non-ARM?
2. Is subscription a parameter to in YAMLs, or is the operator configured to act only on a certain subscription?

>    If we only operate on a single sub do we not support cross-sub? Do we care?

Reviewer 2: I think starting with a single subscription is probably good enough for a starting point, as long as we don't box ourselves in so that cross subscription is impossible in the future. AFAIK, most Azure customers only use a single subscription (I don't know if this is true for likely ASO customers though)

Reviewer: We definitely had a few Batch customers that used multiple subscriptions but not sure how likely this will be in the AKS/ASO world. Would be a good thing to try and validate with others that are more familiar with common usage across AKS customers.

Author: Yeah, I think there are some RBAC/auth issues with cross subscription which we would have to navigate, so I agree that as a starting point we probably should focus on single sub (which is what ASO is already doing so we're aligned there)

   one behavior which is best for our case?

# The road not travelled
## How to represent references
### Use fully qualified ARM ID (a single string) for all references
#### Pros
1. Super simple to implement, because it's what ARM expects at the end of the day anyway.

#### Cons
1. You can't easily transplant your YAML between subscriptions/resource groups because those IDs are in the YAML - you need
   templates and variables so that you can easily move between different resource groups or Subscriptions.
2. Customers can't stay in Kubernetes-land, they have to move their mental model to an "Azure" model.

### Use k8s-infra style KnownTypeReference for all references
#### Pros
1. References look very Kubernetes native.

#### Cons
1. This requires that we detect and label all references appropriately.
2. It means that you can only reference other resources which are being tracked by Kubernetes.
   It likely will mean we need to introduce the notion of tracked 
   resources (which the operator watches but doesn't own) purely for the purpose of 
   allowing references to those resources. 

### Use built-in OwnerReference for owner references
#### Pros

> 1. Basically none

Reviewer 2: 😁

```go
type AzureVMScaleSetSpec struct {
    ...
	Location               string `json:"location"`
	ResourceGroup          string `json:"resourceGroup"`
	VirtualNetworkName     string `json:"virtualNetworkName"`
	SubnetName             string `json:"subnetName"`
    ...
}
```

These properties are combined into a fully qualified ARM id like so:

```go
subnetIDInput := helpers.MakeResourceID(
    client.SubscriptionID,
    resourceGroupName,
    "Microsoft.Network",
    "virtualNetworks",
    vnetName,
    "subnets",
    subnetName,
)
```

Currently ASO does not support cross-subscription references (and some of the resources such as VMSS above don't even support cross-resource group references), but it in theory could by adding some more parameters.

#### What k8s-infra does
k8s-infra is a bit different in that resource references are in Kubernetes language (namespace + name) and not Azure language (resource group + resource name).

> All resource references are done using a special type `KnownTypeReference` which contains the fully qualified Kubernetes name for the resource.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps, consider adding the linkage to the Azure resource, which is the `status.id` field on each resource. This might help to clarify the relationship between the Azure resource and the K8s resource, which is more direct in the aforementioned examples.

### Dependent Resources
#### What ARM does

> ARM template deployments support [two different ways of deploying dependent resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/child-resource-name-type):

Reviewer 3: I've experimented with these 3 ways of deploying dependent resources. There might even be more ways...

Sibling level resources with a dependsOn:
```json
"resources": [
  {
    "apiVersion": "2019-09-01",
    "type": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks",
    "name": "foo",
    "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
    "properties": {
      "addressSpace": {
        "addressPrefixes": [
          "10.0.0.0/16"
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  {
    "apiVersion": "2019-09-01",
    "type": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets",
    "name": "foo/foo-subnet",
    "properties": {
      "addressPrefix": "10.0.0.0/24"
    },
    "dependsOn": [
      "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/foo"
    ]
  }
]
```

Embedded within a set of child resources:
```json
"resources": [
  {
    "apiVersion": "2019-09-01",
    "type": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks",
    "name": "foo",
    "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
    "properties": {
      "addressSpace": {
        "addressPrefixes": [
          "10.0.0.0/16"
        ]
      }
    },
    "resources": [
      {
        "apiVersion": "2019-09-01",
        "type": "subnets",
        "name": "foo-subnet",
        "properties": {
          "addressPrefix": "10.0.0.0/24"
        },
        "dependsOn": [
          "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/foo"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

Embedded directly as an object within the owning resource:
```json
"resources": [
  {
    "apiVersion": "2019-09-01",
    "type": "Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks",
    "name": "foo",
    "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
    "properties": {
      "addressSpace": {
        "addressPrefixes": [
          "10.0.0.0/16"
        ]
      },
      "subnets": [
        {
          "name": "foo-subnet",
          "properties": {
            "addressPrefix": "10.0.0.0/24"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
]
```

Author: Ah, yeah -- the 3rd option doesn't always work (it depends on the resource type involved). Some list their dependent resource types as a property (in this case `subnets`), but often they are not listed as a property on the parent type.

I didn't include the third option in the list because it's not really applicable to all resources, whereas the other two ways are.

```go
type RouteTableSpecProperties struct {
    DisableBGPRoutePropagation bool                          `json:"disableBgpRoutePropagation,omitempty"`
    RouteRefs                  []azcorev1.KnownTypeReference `json:"routeRefs,omitempty" group:"microsoft.network.infra.azure.com" kind:"Route" owned:"true"`
}
```

If the dependent resources aren't there, the status of the owning resource reflects an error explaining that.

## Proposal

### How to represent references
We construct a new type which is our reference holder. I am calling this approach `AugmentedKnownTypeReference` (real type name TBD), because
it's similar to the current approach that `k8s-infra` is taking but with a few changes.

```go
type AugmentedKnownTypeReference struct {
    Kubernetes KubernetesReference
    Azure      AzureReference
}

type KubernetesReference struct {
    // The "Group" of the owning resources GVK. There may be an annotation on the property 
    // that specifies Group, in which case this is optional (if supplied it must match the group
    // on the annotation). For resources which do not have a group annotation, this is required.

>     // TODO: It's possibly going to be confusing to customers when they have to specify this and when they don't...

Reviewer 3: I was worried about this being confusing that is why there is [`KnownTypeReference`](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/317e01fb2bbcb1e1b74d346cc1f470c8307f9514/apis/core/v1/types.go#L39-L45) and [`TypedReference`](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/317e01fb2bbcb1e1b74d346cc1f470c8307f9514/apis/core/v1/types.go#L27-L37) in k8s-infra. The latter includes the group and kind, where as the former expects its included in the associated metadata of the struct tag. Turns out we usually know the type based on the location of the references.

Author: Ah yeah, two different types might be a good idea.

> Turns out we usually know the type based on the location of the references.
Yeah based on my hacking so far, for _all_ ownership (parent -> child) relationships we can autogenerate the group and kind as metadata in the field tag.

For just "references" (i.e. VMSS -> Subnet) it's a bit trickier both to identify the properties in question as well as know for sure what the types are supposed to be.

Author: This is in the list of open questions now (should ownership and references use the same type or different types).

I tend you agree with you @devigned that it would be clearer if there were two types, so I'll tentatively plan on updating the specification to include that. Will leave this comment unresolved though so others can see it and weigh in.

Author: Have updated the spec to default to this approach (two types)

    Group string

    // The "Kind" of the owning resources GVK. There may be an annotation on the property 
    // that specifies Kind, in which case this is optional (if supplied it must match the kind
    // on the annotation). For resources which do not have a kind annotation, this is required.
    // TODO: It's possibly going to be confusing to customers when they have to specify this and when they don't... 
    Kind string

    // This is the name of the kubernetes resource to reference. 
    // References across namespaces are not supported.
    Name string

    // Note that ownership across namespaces in Kubernetes is not allowed, but technically resource
    // references are. There are RBAC considerations here though so probably easier to just start by 
    // disallowing cross-namespace references
}

> type AzureReference struct {

Reviewer 3: Did you consider just making this an Azure resourceID string? I think you are going to run into problems with only having Sub, Group, and Name.

Author: Sub, Group and Name (with how I possibly poorly defined name) is == to fully qualified ARM ID.
but yes we could just make this FQArmId and it might make our life easier.

The main advantage of this was just to have defaulting where if you're in a single sub you don't have to keep repeating the sub in all of your YAML (which presumably would get annoying if you wanted to deploy to a different sub, although maybe Kustomize or something can help with that and we don't want to solve it here?)

I suppose the other argument for "just make this the full ARM ID" is that if they really want nice transportable YAMLs they should be using the Kubernetes flavored references, which will all translate quite nicely between namespaces

Author: I'm certainly open to changing this - there are some advantages for "similarity to ARM templates" too

Reviewer 3: Related, but the authoring experience could become disjointed if one is often working with existing infrastructure via Azure'isms when they are used to K8s'isms. Just something to consider when bridging the gap.

Author: I've added a whole section on this (`Open Design Question - shape of Azure References`).

I've asked my team to weigh in as well.

   the `subnet` field is of custom type `ApiEntityReference`, which has an `id` field where you put the ARM ID for a subnet.
   This may require some manual work. One thing we can investigate doing long term
   is see if there's a way to get teams to annotate "links" in their Swagger somehow...
2. We have to be able to build the fully qualified ARM ID for any referenced resource.

### How to represent ownership and dependent resources
Many resources have owners but do not have an `id` field referring to their owner. Similarly, many resources with dependent resources may not
have a field which refers to them.
**We need to code generate a field which allows users of the CRDs to express ownership**.
As discussed in [what ARM does](#What-ARM-does), this is the `resources` property in the ARM deployment templates.

When we determine that a resource is a dependent resource of another resource kind, we will code-generate
an `OwnerRef` (actual name TBD) property in the dependent resource `Spec`. This will also include an annotation 
about the expected type of the resource.

```go
type SubnetSpec struct {

>     OwnerRef AugmentedKnownTypeReference `json:"ownerRef" group:"microsoft.network.infra.azure.com" kind:"VirtualNetwork"`

Reviewer 3: Why would `OwnerRef` exist if the `Subnet` resource has an `subnetResource.OwnershipReferences` contains a `corev1.OwnershipReference` corresponding to the VNET? This field seems superfluous.

Author: @devigned and I talked about this offline.

This is basically inverting the ownership approach from what k8s-infra is doing today. Instead of the parent including references to its dependents, the dependent resource includes a reference to its parent. This is in-line with what Azure is actually doing in the ARM templates too (where 

The takeaways from the discussion were:
- The name `OwnerRef` probably needs to be reconsidered. It's confusing/collides with `OwnerReferences` in the Kubernetes object metadata.
- The reason that the `KnownTypeReference` in k8s-infra went from parent -> child is because there are a number of resources where the child resource _is a property_ of the parent. A good example of this is `RouteTable`. David and I went through `RouteTable` as an exercise though and confirmed that you can create a route either by putting it side-by-side and using `dependsOn` in the ARM template, OR by putting the resource embedded in the parent resource. Both are actually identical in terms of what they do in ARM. Not every resource has this kind of relationship though (for example `BatchAccount` -> `Pool` doesn't) so we can't rely on that. After much discussion it was agreed that dependent resources referencing their owners (as they do in ARM templates today when deployed side-by-side with `dependsOn` seems a reasonable approach to proceed with).

The other key highlight is that, this field (called `OwnerRef` here, final name TBD) is what we will use in the controller as metadata to set the actual `ownershipReferences` property in `k8s` metadata.

    ...
}
```

When users submit a dependent object we should validate that the provided owner reference is present.
This can be accomplished by making the property required in the CRD.
One major advantage of this approach is that the customer cannot really get the link type wrong, because we've autogenerated the expected

> group/kind information all names they supply must point to the right kind of resource. If they are using the `AzureReference` portion

Reviewer 3: Why not just create an "unmanaged" resource for the Azure referenced resource. For example, the user could create a resource by specifying the only the ID for a `VirtualNetwork`.

```yaml
apiVersion: microsoft.network.infra.azure.com/v20191101
kind: VirtualNetwork
metadata:
  name: sample-virtualnetwork
spec:
  id: /subscriptions/1234/resourcegroups/foo/microsoft.network/virtualnetworks/bazz
```
Perhaps, the controller could fetch the data from the ID and populate the spec from that data. The K8s resource could be marked with an annotation which would keep the Azure resource from being deleted when the K8s resource is deleted.

The above solution would allow for importing Azure resources, simplifies the resource reference in K8s by not needing to create a `AzureReference` b/c everything will be a `KnowTypeReference`, and it provides a simple way to know what K8s need to clean up and what is an "unmanaged" resource.

Author: As discussed I'm sorta 50-50 on this. I think this approach has some advantages and some disadvantages over what I originally proposed. I've tried to cover those in the "Open Design Question - shape of Azure References" section of the document and have asked some other folks to weigh in to see what makes the most sense.

  How are we getting ordering right?
- How can we allow customers to easily find all dependents for a particular owner (i.e. all subnets of a vnet) using `kubectl`?
- Test out an `id` detection heuristic.
- How does this property (which doesn't exist in the Azure ARM spec) get transformed into the right ARM JSON?

## Questions
These are questions I am posing to the group - I don't expect to have an answer without input from the group.

- Basically everything above is extremely ARM specific. IDs are represented in a different way for data planes and non-ARM endpoints, 
  and those endpoints JSON schemas may not have the magical `resources` property which allows us to identify owner-dependent relationships.
  How do we structure the code to solve our ARM problems but allow for alternate solutions for non-ARM?
- Is subscription a parameter to in YAMLs, or is the operator configured to act only on a certain subscription?
  If we only operate on a single sub do we not support cross-sub? Do we care?
- ARM templates have `dependsOn` for specifying creating order of related resources (where A refers to B) - we don't have that, what does that mean?

> - What to do with awkward resources where the owner requires at least 1 dependent to also be created with it?

Reviewer 3: One thing I was thinking about is adding an "embedded: true" tag to the `KnownTypeReferences` where the resource must be embedded and having the K8s to ARM converter fetch embedded resources and include them in the deployment template body of the parent.

  one behavior which is best for our case?

# The road not travelled
## How to represent references
### Use fully qualified ARM ID (a single string) for all references
#### Pros
- Super simple to implement, because it's what ARM expects at the end of the day anyway.

#### Cons
- You can't easily transplant your YAML between subscriptions/resource groups because those IDs are in the YAML - you need
  templates and variables so that you can easily move between different resource groups or Subscriptions.
- Customers can't stay in Kubernetes-land, they have to move their mental model to an "Azure" model.

### Use k8s-infra style KnownTypeReference for all references
#### Pros
- References look very Kubernetes native.

#### Cons
- This requires that we detect and label all references appropriately.
- It means that you can only reference other resources which are being tracked by Kubernetes.
  It likely will mean we need to introduce the notion of tracked 
  resources (which the operator watches but doesn't own) purely for the purpose of 
  allowing references to those resources. 

### Use built-in OwnerReference for owner references
#### Pros

> - Basically none

Reviewer 3: K8s garbage collection seems like a pretty big bonus.

Author: Let me have a call with you and discuss - We will always be using this under the covers

Author: See comment above -- we will 100% be using `OwnerReference` - but we will not be making the customer set it manually, we will figure what resources own what based on `AugmentedKnownTypeReference` (actual final name TBD).

#### Cons

> - OwnerReference requires the object UID, which cannot be known at template authoring time.

Reviewer 3: A user should not be setting these owner references. These owner references should be set by the controller.

Author: Yeah, this option was exploring "What if we let the user set it" -- we will always be using this under the covers.

> - OwnerReference only works for ownership relationships, not for 

Reviewer 3: Were you going to finish with "references"? If so, that is intentional since they are for garbage collection, which a simple reference does not require.

Author: yes... fixed.

## Where ownership references are specified
### Ownership is from owner to dependent
#### Pros
- It makes getting a list of all resources under a particular owner very easy.

#### Cons
- Adding/deleting a new dependent resource requires an update to the owner.

> - The owner can be in a failed state because dependent resources are missing. It feels like we're repeating our intent here:

Reviewer 3: You have specified in a resource spec that is requires a given resource. I believe being in a failed or waiting state is appropriate and is something that is common. For example, what happens to a deployment waiting on a secret reference to be mounted, the deployment waits. If the secret is not available, the deployment will not proceed. I think this is a similar situation.

  initially we may not support that.
 
## Non-goals
- Managing ownership for resources/resource hierarchies that are not managed (were not created)
  by the service operator.
  While this proposal allows references to point to resources not managed by the service operator,
  the consequence of that is that the operator is not watching/monitoring the resource in question
  and as such cannot propagate deletes. Put another way: The entire resource hierarchy must exist
  _in Kubernetes_ for us to manage ownership/object lifecycles. If only part of the resource hierarchy
  is managed by the service operator, only those parts can have their lifecycles managed.  

## Different kinds of resource relationships in Azure
#### Related/linked resources 
Two resources are related to one another ("has-a" relationship), but there is no ownership.
Example: [VMSS -> Subnet](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/master/apis/microsoft.compute/v1/virtualmachinescaleset_types.go#L169) ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-07-01/Microsoft.Compute.json)).

This relationship is stereotypically one-way (a VMSS refers to a Subnet, but a Subnet _does not_ refer to a VMSS).

> #### Owner and dependent

Author: Dependent is the word used by the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/)
> Some Kubernetes objects are owners of other objects. For example, a ReplicaSet is the owner of a set of Pods. The owned objects are called dependents of the owner object.

Note that sometimes an owning type has its dependent type embedded as a property 
(for example: `RouteTable` has the property [RouteTablePropertiesFormat](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2020-03-01/Microsoft.Network.json)).
Most types do not embed the dependent resource directly in the owning resource. We need to cater to both scenarios.

## What do these relationships look like in existing solutions?

This section examines how other operator solutions have tackled these problems. We look at:
- ARM templates
- AzureServiceOperator (ASO)
- k8s-infra

### Related/Linked resources

#### What ARM does
These are just properties (often but not always called `id`) which refer to the fully qualified ARM ID of another resource. For example see a
[sample deployment template for a VMSS refering to an existing vnet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/blob/master/201-vmss-existing-vnet/azuredeploy.json#L136).

```json
"properties": {
  "subnet": {
    "id": "[resourceId(parameters('existingVnetResourceGroupName'), 'Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets', parameters('existingVnetName'), parameters('existingSubNetName'))]"
  },
}
```

#### What ASO does

> Similar to what ARM templates do, ASO uses the decomposition of fully qualified resource id to reference another resource, as seen [here for VMSS -> VNet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/blob/92240406aff3863f3a267d8a1dc1e28aa3e841ae/api/v1alpha1/azurevmscaleset_types.go#L25)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to how ARM templates behave, ASO uses the decomposition of fully qualified resource id to reference another resource, as seen [here for VMSS -> VNet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/blob/92240406aff3863f3a267d8a1dc1e28aa3e841ae/api/v1alpha1/azurevmscaleset_types.go#L25)
```

```go
type AzureVMScaleSetSpec struct {
    ...
	Location               string `json:"location"`
	ResourceGroup          string `json:"resourceGroup"`
	VirtualNetworkName     string `json:"virtualNetworkName"`
	SubnetName             string `json:"subnetName"`
    ...
}
```

These properties are combined into a fully qualified ARM ID like so:

```go
subnetIDInput := helpers.MakeResourceID(
    client.SubscriptionID,
    resourceGroupName,
    "Microsoft.Network",
    "virtualNetworks",
    vnetName,
    "subnets",
    subnetName,
)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Perhaps extend the example to show what the result looks like, for those not so familiar with ARM.

> Currently ASO does not support cross-subscription references (and some of the resources such as VMSS above don't even support cross-resource group references), but it in theory could by adding some more parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently ASO does not support cross-subscription references (and some of the resources such as VMSS don't allow cross-resource group references), but it in theory could by adding parameters.
```

#### What k8s-infra does

> k8s-infra is a bit different in that resource references are in Kubernetes language (namespace + name) and not Azure language (resource group + resource name).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
k8s-infra is a bit different in that resource references are in Kubernetes style (namespace + name) and not Azure style (resource-group + resource-name).
```

> All resource references are done using a special type `KnownTypeReference` which contains the fully qualified Kubernetes name for the resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All resource references are done using the special type `KnownTypeReference` which contains the fully qualified Kubernetes name for the resource.
```

### Dependent Resources
#### What ARM does
ARM template deployments support [two different ways of deploying dependent resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/child-resource-name-type):

- Embed the dependent resource directly in the same ARM template in which the owning resource is created, using the `resources` property.
    - This requires that the owning resource and the dependent resource are created at the same time.
- Deploy the dependent resource separately.
    - When doing this, you should specify `dependsOn` stating that your new dependent resource depends on its owner. This is not strictly required in cases where
      the owner already exists, but is required when it is still being created (possibly in parallel).
    - The `name` field of the dependent resource in this mode serves a dual purpose - to name the dependent resource and to identify the parent resources.

>       Each segment of the name corresponds to an owning resource, so creating a Batch Pool `foo` in Batch account `account` would have `name` = `account/foo`.

Reviewer 2: The two approaches (embed-directly vs deploy-separately) are described using completely different styles. The former is declarative, the later is first person. Parallel branches (as seen here in bullet lists) should follow similar construction to highlight the similarities/differences between the alternatives.

	Server         string `json:"server"`
	StartIPAddress string `json:"startIpAddress"`
	EndIPAddress   string `json:"endIpAddress"`
}
```

The `ResourceGroup` and `Server` are references to the owners of this type.

#### What k8s-infra does
k8s-infra uses the same `KnownTypeReference` type mentioned above for ownership references too.
There are two patterns for ownership in k8s-infra today.

One pattern is used for ResourceGroup, where 
[top level resources have a link to the resource group they are in](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/14105b1cb3f6967cd086c9f8f75fb16bb85d6318/apis/microsoft.compute/v1/virtualmachinescaleset_types.go#L323).

```go
type VirtualMachineScaleSetSpec struct {
    // +kubebuilder:validation:Required
    ResourceGroupRef *azcorev1.KnownTypeReference `json:"resourceGroupRef" group:"microsoft.resources.infra.azure.com" kind:"ResourceGroup"`
    ...
}
```

The other pattern is where the owning resource has links to the dependent resources it is expecting to have:

```go
type RouteTableSpecProperties struct {
    DisableBGPRoutePropagation bool                          `json:"disableBgpRoutePropagation,omitempty"`

>     RouteRefs                  []azcorev1.KnownTypeReference `json:"routeRefs,omitempty" group:"microsoft.network.infra.azure.com" kind:"Route" owned:"true"`

Reviewer 2: Perhaps word-wrap for clarity, with a comment that you'd normally see it all on the one line.

}
```

If the dependent resources aren't there, the status of the owning resource reflects an error explaining that.

## Proposal

### How to represent references

> We construct a new type which is our reference holder. I am calling this approach `AugmentedKnownTypeReference` (real type name TBD), because

Reviewer 2: How about `ResourceReference` ?

And should it be an interface, implemented by both `KubernetesReference` and `AzureReference` - or does this not show well in the CRD?

    // that specifies Kind, in which case this is optional (if supplied it must match the kind
    // on the annotation). For resources which do not have a kind annotation, this is required.
    // TODO: It's possibly going to be confusing to customers when they have to specify this and when they don't... 
    Kind string
    
    // Note that no Version is required here because the objective is to link to a single Kubernetes
    // object, and in Kubernetes versions are all just views on the same entity. The assumption (which I believe Azure honors
    // is that every version of the Foo type has the same ID shape (it's fundamentally not the same kind of resource
    // if the ID has changed). Since all we need to do is look that entity up in etcd and get its name details so that
    // we can build a fully qualified name, we don't actually need version here.

    // This is the name of the kubernetes resource to reference. 
    // References across namespaces are not supported.
    Name string

    // Note that ownership across namespaces in Kubernetes is not allowed, but technically resource

>     // references are. There are RBAC considerations here though so probably easier to just start by 

Reviewer 2: I had to google a definition for this - perhaps use the full term, or at least add to a glossary.

Author: Added a link at the top of the documented for related reading

Instead of having an `AzureReference` as proposed above, we could instead just have the Kubernetes shaped
reference, and a way where customers of the operator could import external Azure resources into Kubernetes in
an unmanaged mode. Resources in this unmanaged mode couldn't be updated/modified through Kubernetes, and 
if deleted it would just delete the k8s representation of the object, not the actual backing object in ARM.

This is what [CAPZ does](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure/blob/d93e75deff2be3c7647c2ddfd387ce0ef022e1cd/api/v1alpha2/tags.go#L78) today.

#### Advantages compared the proposal above
- References always look very Kubernetes native. This has an advantage especially when a customer is referring to a single
  shared resource (Storage Account or the like) across many YAMLs. The more usages they have of it the more awkward it
  gets to refer to it by fully qualified ARM ID all the time.
- The structure of the reference type would be simpler because it's not `Azure` or `Kubernetes`, it could just look like
  `KnownTypeReference` does today in k8s-infra.

#### Disadvantages compared to the proposal above

> - It means that you can only reference other resources which are being tracked by Kubernetes,
>   which means we likely need to introduce the notion of unmanaged 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Only able to reference other resources which are being tracked by Kubernetes. 
  We would likely need to introduce the notion of unmanaged 
```

>   resources (which the operator watches but doesn't own) for the purpose of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  resources (which the operator _watches_ but does not _own_) for the purpose of 
```

(Expanded `doesn't` to `does not` for emphasis.)

  allowing references to those resources. This puts some additional burden on the customers mental model
  as in order to know what an action will do on a resource they need to know if it's managed or unmanaged.

### Implementation

> There are three key pillars required for implementing the proposal as discussed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three key pillars required for implementing the proposal as described
```

#### Identify resource relationships

##### Resource references (for related resources)
We must identify all resource references in the JSON schema and transform their type to `AugmentedKnownTypeReference`.
There is no specific marker which means: "This field is a reference" - most are called `id` but that's not a guarantee.
For example on the [VirtualMachineScaleSetIPConfigurationProperties](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-07-01/Microsoft.Compute.json) 
the `subnet` field is of custom type `ApiEntityReference`, which has an `id` field where you put the ARM ID for a subnet.
This may require some manual work. One thing we can investigate doing long term

> is see if there's a way to get teams to annotate "links" in their Swagger somehow...

Reviewer 2: At this level of nesting, I found using a bold sentence fragment at the start of a paragraph read better. 

For example:

> **For references to related resources** found in the JSON schema, we must transform their type to `AugmentedKnownTypeReference`.
> There is no specific marker which means: "This field is a reference" - most are called `id` but that's not a guarantee.
> ...
> **For references to owned/owning resources**, we ...

Author: Suggestion applied

func ExamplePut() error {
    etcdObject := MagicallyGetStateFromEtcd()
    
    // Somehow we determine that this particular object has an owner - possibly we need to impl an interface?
    ownerArmId = etcdObject.FQArmId()

    var toSerialize interface{}
    toSerialize = etcdObject
    if armTransformer, ok := etcdObject.(ARMTransformer); ok {
        toSerialize = armTransformer.ToArm(ownerArmId)
    }
    json := json.Marshal(toSerialize)
    armClient.SendIt(json)

}

func ExampleGet() error {
    etcdObject := MagicallyGetStateFromEtcd()
    
    // TODO: Complete this

    // Somehow we determine that this particular object has an owner - possibly we need to impl an interface?
    ownerArmId = etcdObject.Owner.FQArmId()
    
    armId := etcdObject.FQArmId()

    // We need to provide the empty type to deserialize into
    // Somehow construct a new object of type etcdObject
    if armTransformer, ok := newEtcdObject.(ARMTransformer); ok {
        toGet = armTransformer.ToArm(ownerArmId) // This just converts from an empty etcdObject shape to an empty arm object shape
        armClient.GetIt(armId, toGet)
    
        armTransformer.FromArm(toGet)
    }
}
```

> ### A note on the differences between owner references and arbitrary resource references

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Owner references vs Arbitrary references
```

Because we are code-generating all of the `ownerRef` fields, we can always supply the annotations for group and kind automatically, using the information
provided to us by the ARM json specification. **This is not the case for abitrary references (`id`'s) to other resources**. We do not actually know
programmatically what type that reference is, and it some cases it may actually be allowed to point to multiple different types 
(think custom image vs shared image gallery).

Currently, the plan is to trust the customer gets it right and ensure we have good

> failure modes for resources if they actually got it wrong (which will cause their resource to move to an unhealthy state). 

Reviewer 2: Good diagnostics will be critical to making this work for customers.

## FAQ

#### What happens when a dependent resource specifies an `ownerRef` that doesn't exist?
The dependent resource will be stuck in an unprovisioned state with an error stating that the owner doesn't exist.

> If the owner is created, the dependent resource will also be created automatically by the reconciliation loop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the owner is created, the dependent resource will then be created by the reconciliation loop automatically.
```

#### What happens when a resource contains a link to another resource which doesn't exist?
The resource with the link will be stuck in an unprovisioned state with an error stating that the linked resource doesn't exist.

> This behavior is the same as for a dependent resource with a non-existant owner.

Reviewer 2: Might this result in deadlock if two resources reference each other? We might need to know which one to create first.

Author: If that was allowed by ARM, yes that could be an issue. I don't think that's allowed by ARM... will do some reading to see if I can find official documentation on that.

  - Ideally ResourceGroup is handled the same as other owners and isn't special cased. 
- Define how Kubernetes interacts with Azure resources _not_ created/managed by Kubernetes, for example resources which were created prior to the 
  customer onboarding to the Azure Service Operator.
- References should be extensible to work across multiple Azure subscriptions, although
  initially we may not support that.
 
## Non-goals
- Managing ownership for resources/resource hierarchies that were not created
  by the service operator.
  While this proposal allows references to point to external resources not managed by the service operator,
  the operator is not watching/monitoring the resource in question
  and as such cannot propagate deletes. Put another way: for the operator to manage ownership/object lifecycles, the entire resource hierarchy must exist _within Kubernetes_. If only part of the resource hierarchy
  is managed by the service operator, only those parts can have their lifecycles managed.  

## Different kinds of resource relationships in Azure
#### Related/linked resources 
Two resources are related to one another ("has-a" relationship), but there is no ownership.

> Example: [VMSS -> Subnet](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/master/apis/microsoft.compute/v1/virtualmachinescaleset_types.go#L169) ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-07-01/Microsoft.Compute.json)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Example: [VMSS → Subnet](https://github.com/Azure/k8s-infra/blob/master/apis/microsoft.compute/v1/virtualmachinescaleset_types.go#L169) ([json schema](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2019-07-01/Microsoft.Compute.json)).
```

> This relationship is stereotypically one-way (a VMSS refers to a Subnet, but a Subnet _does not_ refer to a VMSS).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This relationship is always one-way (a VMSS refers to a Subnet, but a Subnet _does not_ refer to a VMSS).
```

(for example: `RouteTable` has the property [RouteTablePropertiesFormat](https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2020-03-01/Microsoft.Network.json)).
Most types do not embed the dependent resource directly in the owning resource. We will need to cater for both the embedded and non-embedded cases.

## What do these relationships look like in existing solutions?

This section examines how other operator solutions have tackled these problems. We look at:
- ARM templates
- Azure Service Operator (ASO)
- k8s-infra

### Related/Linked resources

#### What does ARM do?
These are just properties (often but not always called `id`) which refer to the fully qualified ARM ID of another resource. For example see a
[sample deployment template for a VMSS refering to an existing vnet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates/blob/master/201-vmss-existing-vnet/azuredeploy.json#L136).

```json
"properties": {
  "subnet": {
    "id": "[resourceId(parameters('existingVnetResourceGroupName'), 'Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets', parameters('existingVnetName'), parameters('existingSubNetName'))]"
  },
}
```

#### What does ASO do?

> Similar to how ARM templates behave, ASO uses the decomposition of fully qualified resource id to reference another resource, as seen [here for VMSS -> VNet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/blob/92240406aff3863f3a267d8a1dc1e28aa3e841ae/api/v1alpha1/azurevmscaleset_types.go#L25)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Similar to how ARM templates behave, ASO uses the decomposition of fully qualified resource id to reference another resource, as seen [here for VMSS → VNet](https://github.com/Azure/azure-service-operator/blob/92240406aff3863f3a267d8a1dc1e28aa3e841ae/api/v1alpha1/azurevmscaleset_types.go#L25)
```

**This is not the case for abitrary references (`id`'s) to other resources**. We do not actually know
programmatically what type those references are. In some cases it may actually be allowed to point to multiple different types 
(for example: custom image vs shared image gallery).

In the `KnownResourceReference` case, we know the type we're looking for and can fail fast if the customer specifies the wrong type.
In the `ResourceReference` case, we cannot know the type we're looking for, so we must accept what the customer has provided and ensure that we have good error messages
if they have provided a link to an invalid resource (usually the error from Azure should suffice).

### ResourceLifeCycle and unmanaged resources
In order to keep references Kubernetes-native, allow a "single pane of glass" for customers looking at their Azure resources through Kubernetes, and 
allow references to resources that were created before the customer onboarded to the operator, we introduce a new mode to each resource: `ResourceLifeCycle`.

`ResourceLifeCycle` can be either `Managed` or `Unmanaged`.

> `ResourceLifeCycle` is not specified by the customer explicitly in the `Spec`, instead 

Reviewer 4: sentence here is unfinished?

Author: Oops! Fixed

> RouteTable + Routes issue (multiple routes of the same name are allowed)

Reviewer 4: Some heading markup missing in this and the following paragraphs, I think?

Options for this:

> Note that all of these options share this restriction: Each resource must be imported, i.e. to import a VNET you may need to import

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Note that all of these options share this restriction: Each resource must be imported, e.g. to import a VNET you may need to import
```

the resource group the VNET is in, and then the VNET (with an `Owner` reference pointing to the imported `ResourceGroup`). 

> Option 1: Users must create a _valid_ resource with the same name as the resource they want to track. If this resources spec differs from what is in Azure, an error is logged 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Option 1: Users must create a _valid_ resource with the same name as the resource they want to track. If this resource’s spec differs from what is in Azure, an error is logged 
```

but we never actually apply any state to Azure (i.e. we don't try to sync to the spec). A tag in the metadata must be added to inform the operator not to sync.

> Note that because of how we managed names in Azure and names in Kubernetes,  

Reviewer 4: Unfinished sentence?

Author: Good eye

Advantages
- Swapping from unmanaged to managed is super easy, just remove the tag blocking the reconciliation loop.

Disadvantages
- There is possibly a significant amount of extra effort required to re-specify a resource whose shape we really just want to "import" from ARM. Worse for large trees of objects
  or deeply nested objects.
- If the tag is forgotten (or has a typo) we will try to manage a resource which we shouldn't be managing. This could be _very_ problematic depending on how different

>   the specification is from what's there in Azure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  the specification is from what exists in Azure.
```

These entities will only be watched by the controller, no mutating update will be sent to ARM.

Advantages
- Relatively easy to import even complex object hierarchies.

Disadvantages
- This screws up the "required-ness" of non-identifying fields in a spec. For example: a Virtual Network requires a `Properties VirtualNetworkProperties` field to be set,
  but since we have to allow that field to be `nil` when importing a Virtual Network we can't set the `Properties` field with a required annotation for Kubebuilder.

Option 3: Same as option 2, but use `anyOf` to specify two valid structures:
```yaml
  spec:
    type: object
    properties:
      owner:
        properties:
          name:
            type: string
      azureName:
        type: string
      foo:
        type: integer
      anyOf:
        - required: ["owner"]
        - required: ["owner", "foo"]
```

Note that it has to be `anyOf` because `oneOf` disallows multiple matches, and `owner` + `foo` matches both sets in the example above.

Advantages
- Represents what we want and maintains better automatic validation.

Disadvantages

> - Kubebuilder doesn't generating this, so we would have to come up with another way to do it, or possibly upstream changes to Kubebuilder to support it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Kubebuilder doesn't support generating this, so we would have to come up with another way to do it, or possibly upstream changes to Kubebuilder to support it.
```

        armClient.GetIt(armId, result)
    
        armTransformer.FromArm(ownerRef, result)
    }

    // Perform a put to update resource state
    // Walk the owner hierarchy (assuming owner has no owner here for simplicity) to build owner name
    ownerGvk := ownerRef.ToGvk()
    owner := scheme.New(ownerGvk)
    ownerArmResource := owner.(ARMResource)
    ownerId := owner.Name()

    var toSerialize interface{}
    toSerialize = resource
    if armTransformer, ok := toSerialize.(ARMTransformer); ok {
        toSerialize = armTransformer.ToArm(ownerArmId)
    }
    json := json.Marshal(toSerialize)
    armClient.SendIt(json)
}
```

## FAQ

### What happens when a dependent resource specifies an `Owner` that doesn't exist?
The dependent resource will be stuck in an unprovisioned state with an error stating that the owner doesn't exist.
If the owner is created, the dependent resource will then be created by the reconciliation loop automatically.

### What happens when a resource contains a link to another resource which doesn't exist?
The resource with the link will be stuck in an unprovisioned state with an error stating that the linked resource doesn't exist.

> This behavior is the same as for a dependent resource with a non-existant owner.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This behavior is the same as for a dependent resource with a non-existent owner.
```

### How are the CRD entities going to be rendered as ARM deployments?
There are a few different ways to perform ARM deployments as [discussed in Dependent Resources](#dependent-resources).
Due to the nature of Kubernetes CRDs, each resource is managed separately and has its own reconcilation loop. It doesn't make sense to try to 
deploy a single ARM template with the entire resource graph. Each resource will be done in its own deployment (with
a `dependsOn` specified if required).

### Aren't there going to be races in resource creation?
Yes. If you have a complex hierarchy of resources (where resources have involved relationships between one another) and submit 
all of their YAMLs to the operator at the same time it is likely that some requests when sent to ARM will fail because of missing dependencies.
Those resources that failed to deploy initially will be in an unprovisioned state in Kubernetes, and eventually

> all the resources will be created through multiple iterations of the reconciliation loop. 

Reviewer 4: We could also use `DependsOn` in the deployment template to get an ordering that we desire. This might not be needed but it could speed up initial deployment rather than having to wait for the reconciliation loop to fix everything.

Author: I think that `DependsOn` requires multiple resources submitted in a single ARM template in order to get that ordering - since our controller instances will each be managing a single type I am pretty sure we don't have an easy path to a unified ARM template with N resources in it?

> Within your template, the dependsOn element enables you to define one resource as a dependent on one or more resources.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/define-resource-dependency

perform deletion of resources in Azure. Azure is already going to do that automatically. We need Kubernetes garbage collection
to easily maintain sync with Azure.

As far as implementation goes this just means that when we are performing deletes in the generic controller and the 
resource is already deleted in Azure we just swallow that error and allow the Kubernetes object to be deleted.

### What exactly happens when a resource with an `Owner` is created?
Once the resource has been accepted by the various admissions controllers and has been cofirmed to match 
the structural schema defined in the CRD, the generic controller will attempt to look up
the owning resource in etcd (or in ARM if it's an `AzureReference`).

If the generic controller finds the owning resource, it updates the `ownerReference` in the object metadata
to include the `uid` of the owning resource and then submits an ARM template to ARM using the 
name of the owner and the name of the resource to build the name specified in the ARM template. It will
include the name of the owner in the `dependsOn` field. 

### What happens if an owning resource is deleted and immediately recreated?

> Kubernetes garbage collection is based on object `uid`'s. As discussed above we bind to that `uid` on 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Kubernetes garbage collection is based on object `uid`'s. As discussed above, we bind to that `uid` on 
```

dependent resource creation. If a resource is deleted and then recreated Kubernetes will still understand
that the new resource is fundamentally different than the old resource and garbage collection will happen
as expected. The result will be that there is a new owning resource but all of its dependent resources were 
deleted (in Azure and in k8s).

## TODOs
- How can we allow customers to easily find all dependents for a particular owner (i.e. all subnets of a vnet) using `kubectl`?

> - Cross subscription refs?

Reviewer 4: Note here that these aren't supported by Azure.

Author: They are in some cases I believe? https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61001675/azure-vnet-cross-subscription-peering

Reviewer 4: Right, but in general we can’t do it. That example is specific to VNets and needed for their specific functionality.

Author: Ahh, got it. Will fix up document to clarify.
